Problems faced by students in online classes during COVID-19 
EFFECT OF LOCKDOWN ON STUDENTS’ EDUCATION
Online learning maybe a good option however it comes with its own troubles.Internet connection to issues like exams conduction all of these need to be looked upon.Security in reference to online lectures and also boredom are some important things to take care of.
Problems faced by students in online classes during COVID-19
The Covid-19 pandemic and the prolonged lockdown induced by it has made working as well as studying from home the new normal. Though the concept of online learning existed even during the pre-pandemic era, the phenomenon has certainly reached an altogether different level and intensity in these trying times.
While e-learning emerged as the biggest savior in the wake of the closure of educational institutions, it has come with its own set of challenges.
All stakeholders, including students, teachers, and institutions are forced to overcome challenges that have come with this sudden and often hastily executed online learning programs.In a lot of cases, the key driver for the adoption of a technology platform was whether or not it was free.This led to a lot of products being adopted which made the adoption curve significantly steeper. There was a lot of predatory behavior by some of the large technology players to get a foothold in the education sector.This led to new verbs like “zoom bombing” being added to the English lexicon.
Internet connection strength
One of the major stumbling blocks about online learning is the lack of strong and stable internet connections, as the ones conventionally used at homes have either low bandwidth or have exhausted their limits.Just the process of logging in for a class itself becomes a cumbersome process for students and teachers alike. Even as upgrading the broadband connection is a prima facie solution, but it certainly isn’t a fool-proof one.
What’s needed for the purpose is a tool that can make logging in a one-time process. There’s a need for an app wherein both teachers and students can simply select their class/subject and get going.
Conducting assessments
Assessing a student in the right manner is an integral component of the education system. Under normal circumstances, students are made to take a test or appear in an examination on school premises, unfortunately, that’s not a possibility now.In online learning, assessing students through a Multiple-Choice Question (MCQ) mechanism is still feasible as a stopgap but real learning is measured by conducting a subjective assessment — this is one of the biggest challenges for traditional EdTech solutions that are predominantly MCQ based.
Another related hindrance is checking the assessments. Even if students upload their answer sheets online and if the teacher concerned teaches across five different sections, they will have to assess more than 50 students. And it is particularly an uphill task to upload or download so many answer sheets.
So, what’s needed here is a tool that provides a comprehensive assessment system wherein the requirements of both the teachers as well as the students are met.
Restricting cheating instances
Accept it or not, there are quite a few students who try to leverage the easy way to success. It has become easier for them to cheat while using online learning systems.
While we agree that this is primarily about being self-disciplined, educational institutions should look at minimizing the possibility of students subverting the sanctity of assessments that are used to improve the learning of the class and the student too.
To check this menace, we have developed a secure mechanism on our platform wherein the teacher is immediately informed when a student leaves the examination screen to access a browser, etc.
We also shuffle the questions so children cannot use communication mediums to get an unfair advantage.
Online security
No matter what you do on the Internet, concern about data privacy and security is always associated. Usually, teachers conduct online classes through free platforms such as ZOOM and Google Classroom.
But they are not the safest or the most secure tools for learning. The need is to make use of new-age EdTech platforms that ensure a safe online environment.
Monotony
Last but possibly the most significant challenges associated with online learning is monotony and boredom induced by increased exposure to the screen as well as the modus operandi of sitting at one restricted spot for prolonged hours.
The onus of breaking this boredom or fatigue lies with the teachers and the educational institution. There is a need for a consistent endeavor to make the session as interactive as feasible.
Taking this aspect of online learning into consideration, we have developed a mechanism in our EdTech platform through which students can be engaged in polls and other similar activities. There is also a provision of a whiteboard-style tool wherein teachers and students can draw or write anything, eventually making learning more interactive.
I would also like to talk about how things would be in the future when it comes to online education and why people still believe it’s going to be a hit and is beneficial:
The concept of traditional education has changed radically within the last couple of years. Being physically present in a classroom isn’t the only learning option anymore — not with the rise of the internet and new technologies, at least. Nowadays, you have access to a quality education whenever and wherever you want, as long as you can get online. We are now entering a new era — the revolution of online education.
There’s no need to discount the skepticism surrounding education through the internet. It’s hard to understand the notion of leaving behind the conventional classroom, especially if it’s to face this vast space called The Internet.
Keep on reading to learn five more reasons why you should get involved in online education:
Flexible
Online education enables the teacher and the student to set their own learning pace, and there’s the added flexibility of setting a schedule that fits everyone’s agenda. As a result, using an online educational platform allows for a better balance of work and studies, so there’s no need to give anything up. Studying online teaches you vital time management skills, which makes finding a good work-study balance easier. Having a common agenda between the student and teacher can also prompt both parties to accept new responsibilities and have more autonomy.
WIDE SELECTION OF PROGRAMS
In a space as vast as the internet, there are infinite skills and subjects to teach and learn. A growing number of universities and higher education schools are offering online versions of their programs for various levels and disciplines. From music composition to quantum physics, there are options for every type of student. Studying your program online is also a great option for getting an official certificate, diploma, or degree without physically setting foot on a university campus.ACCESSIBILITY
Online education enables you to study or teach from anywhere in the world. This means there’s no need to commute from one place to another or follow a rigid schedule. On top of that, not only do you save time, but you also save money, which can be spent on other priorities. The virtual classroom is also available anywhere there’s an internet connection, and a good way to take advantage of this is to travel. For example, if you’re studying abroad and want to get a job, online education is a great choice. There’s no reason to give up on working or studying while exploring new and exotic places.
CUSTOMIZED LEARNING EXPERIENCE
As mentioned before how flexibility can help you to set your own study pace. But online education is also flexible for each student’s requirements and level of ability.
Online classes tend to be smaller than conventional class sizes. Most of the time, online learning platforms only allow one student at a time, and in almost all cases, this allows for greater interaction and more feedback between you and your tutor.
There’s often access to very diverse material such as videos, photos, and eBooks online as well, and tutors can also integrate other formats like forums or discussions to improve their lessons.
Cost-Effective
Unlike in-person education methods, online education tends to be more affordable. There’s also often a wide range of payment options that let you pay in installments or per class. This allows for better budget management. Many of you may also be subject to discounts or scholarships, so the price is rarely high. You can also save money from the commute and class materials, which are often available for free. In other words, the monetary investment is less, but the results can be better than other options.
Final Thoughts On Positives
These are only a few reasons to choose online education, and why 90 percent of students today think that online learning is the same or better than the traditional classroom experience. Every student must assess their unique situation and decide according to their needs and goals, and while this alternative to traditional education is not for everyone, it’s still a convenient option with virtually endless options for international students all over the world.
The Conclusion ON Negatives
We have looked at both the positives as well as negatives of online education and when you compare them it can be observed and that’s what I feel, online education in today’s hour is a problematic norm which has taken over the world, whereby the students aren’t receiving the best learning due to the restrictions which are revolving around online teaching and the methods which are adopted aren’t much use with the students’ engagement, causing a lot of distress for them to be able to adapt what’s thrown at them quickly and easily.
This topic can be written in unlimited pages, however considering the limitation of the words and also things changing each day about the education patterns, you can never figure out what’s good and what’s not.
Hence, I would like to end my article here by saying: “Keep Learning, Method Could Be Any”.
Blackcoffer Insights 35: Karan Kapur, MET Institute Of Management

