How Telehealth and Telemedicine helping people to fight against COVID-19 
The last 2 years are the most critical time in the world and to survive in that time it’s a great challenge for people. People all around the world are to be aware of this and they protect their families by maintaining the protocols. At this time online services play a great role. People all around the world can buy their daily life needs online and the providers also care for their customers, so they delivered the product to their customers by maintaining the covid-19 protocols. This online medicine service has also become popular. The people don’t need to be panicked to go out for this and they can provide the medicines to the patients at the home, and also store the necessary medicines on their own. The terms telehealth and telemedicine are used interchangeably. In remote areas to provide medicines and healthcare telehealth is used and to provide medicines at the doorsteps to the people telemedicine’s used. The technology is used for this clinic information. This technique is used for electronic communication and sharing the medicine’s information with the pharmacy directly. This concept is not new but in this situation, the use of this system has become very popular and also very useful.
Discussion
Current scenario
In every world, every government gives priority to telehealth and telemedicine technology. This thing started with the medicine library, which provides the necessary medicine and also gives an idea of the use of every medicine. This technique is used for electronic communication and sharing the medicine’s information with the pharmacy directly. In every remote area, this technology provides a great role. To support the teleconnection activity department of information technology has set a standard for that so that people can use this in this critical situation.
Implementation
Telehealth and telemedicine are different things, but the aim and purpose of these two technologies are the same, to provide healthcare services to people without any problem. This system is used for both the patient and healthcare professional education also for the public(Leite,2018). This technology aims to overcome the barriers and provide equal access to the services and the interventions. This technology helps to overcome the barrier and solve problems like adverse weather and illness. Telehealth technology is used to consult with the patient’s family about diagnosis and treatment by the service.
Marketing Strategies
The telehealth system provides the patient’s information to various locations to provide the patient with the best treatment. This system is accessed by every unavailable service for the patient in every remote area. Telehealth removes the travel time and waiting rooms for the patients to the remote areas. for this technique, the patients can get safe ety and are too ill to travel in restricted areas.  This technology is not dependent on locations, it can work in every location. This marketing for this technology is very popular in the market and people also love to use this technology.
Benefit
 This is the benefit of this technology. This technology can manage the health of the patients by self-management and through monitoring. The patients can go for a checkup in time when they can choose this thing that always gives a benefit to the patients. There are more opportunities to improve standard care with various technologies. This is more equitable to access healthcare. The clients can use the medical images for diagnosis and they can tell the doctors about their problems through video calls. If the case is very serious they don’t wait to check the doctor they can directly connect with the doctors through video calls. But in other ways, it causes some problems for the patients. With this technology they can meet various doctors each time, these things can create confusion for the patients and their families. The older patients and the child does have a family member with them for their health purpose. The patient’s and the doctor’s communication is needed to be good and they need to understand this is a part of the therapy. If they do not communicate with each other, the problem will take a long time to resolve. The most important thing is that the patient and the therapist need to use the technology properly. In time this technology will help people in many ways like that.
Future Scopes
This technology has the scope to be more popular in the future. After the covid-19 situation, this technology became very popular so the care delivery services that connect the patient to the health professionals to provide using the video calls and texting, and many more. For this, accessible and affordable health care is born as people’s care. Today telehealth is bigger than everything (Ramettaet al .2019).  The services provide the patients to use this properly and get their therapy not to go to the clinic and can use these things as a lucky chance for their family and also.
Conclusion
Patients always appreciate this technology and agree that this technology always helps them a lot and this is a good review to proceed with these things in the future. The most common reason is to provide the technology everywhere to the GP technology which is easy to locate the patient’s position to access them in various conditions.  Proper communication is when the GP system is working properly and it has the locking time that causes problems so that the two parties have every mall chance to face any problem.  With this technology, people can have courage and faith in their life. So they believe in this system nowadays. After surviving this critical situation they are already using this in daily life. So the purpose of building this system is to reach their level and be successful to achieve its purpose.
Blackcoffer Insights 40: Pranavitha.V, WOXSEN UNIVERSITY
