The Future of Telehealth Services 
Telemedicine refers to a specific set of clinical treatments, while telehealth encompasses a wide range of remote healthcare services. These are some of them:
Primary care in a rural setting
Services for mental health
Services that are not clinical (e.g., provider training and continuing medical education)
Telehealth is defined as “the use of electronic information and communications technology to support long-distance clinical health care, patient & professional wellbeing education, public health, and health administration,” according to the Health Resources Services Administration.
Telehealth refers to a wide range of services delivered via a variety of telehealth platforms. Patients can get mental health help by sending confidential text messages to a counselor using the app, video conferencing with a primary care physician about new health issues, or attending a Zoom meeting about local public health programs.
Forms of Telehealth Technologies-
Synchronous Communication
Patients and providers can communicate in real-time via phone or live audio and video with synchronous communication. A computer, smartphone, or tablet can be used for synchronous communication.
In some situations, a patient’s vital signs or tests may be taken by an in-person healthcare provider (e.g., ultrasounds). The provider then uses telehealth technologies to provide the information to a remote member of the healthcare team in real-time (e.g., a doctor, nurse, or medical assistant).
Asynchronous Communication
Asynchronous communication makes use of “store and forwards” technology, which allows patients and clinicians to collect data (such as notes, photos, and metrics) now and reply to and evaluate it later. Many patient portals and apps use encrypted, secure messaging for enhancing asynchronous communication.
Remote Patient Monitoring
Remote patient monitoring allows doctors to keep an eye on a patient’s clinical parameters (such as insulin levels for diabetes monitoring) from afar. It can be synchronous (real-time) or asynchronous (not real-time).
Patients are seeking and receiving treatment and care in new ways because of telehealth technologies. Patients can now communicate with healthcare providers in real-time, receive answers to their questions, receive prescriptions, send photos and messages through encrypted chat portals, and keep track of their medical records wirelessly through cloud sharing programs — all without ever having to visit a physical health facility.
Telehealth services promote public health during pandemics by allowing patients to receive care while adhering to social distancing requirements. These services may be a safer option for primary care physicians because they may be successful in reducing COVID-19 exposure.
Furthermore, videoconferencing has the potential to ease the strain on healthcare facilities caused by patient demand. The use of personal protection equipment by healthcare personnel is reduced as a result of this (PPE). Telehealth has therefore aided healthcare systems in providing care while reducing risk.
Telehealth has several potential applications outside of a pandemic that is here to stay. Telehealth has the ability to:
Provide access to preventative and regular care to help maintain continuity of care.
Increase access for patients with mobility issues (e.g., the elderly) and those who reside distant from usual service locations (e.g., rural patients)
In many circumstances, connect patients with care providers faster than traditional offerings.
Provide coaching and support to individuals with chronic illnesses, such as nutrition guidance and weight loss.
Providers should be able to follow up with patients (e.g., recently hospitalized patients)
Allow clinical measurements to be monitored by care teams (including the patient and their team of healthcare providers) (e.g., blood pressure or blood glucose levels)
Peer-to-peer training should be provided to healthcare providers regularly.
Furthermore, patients may find that using telehealth services makes it easier to keep track of their medical data and measures. A person with a family history of heart disease, for example, may use wearable technology (such as a smartwatch with a built-in pedometer and heart rate monitor) to measure their daily exercise and blood pressure, saving their data in a health monitoring app and sharing it with their doctor.
Telehealth increases patients’ autonomy and access to critical healthcare services in a variety of ways. Similarly, telehealth technology assists providers in reaching out to underserved communities, such as patients in rural locations.
Telehealth Platforms
Telehealth has a bright future. Patients and providers have more methods to connect than ever before, thanks to the abundance of apps and software packages available.
From large telehealth software suites to simple apps, telehealth platforms cover the spectrum. The following three examples are just a few of the many telehealth options that are expected to grow in the coming years
Telemedicine Suites
These software packages connect patients with clinicians by combining different technologies at the same time. Mend, for example, sends text-based appointment reminders, provides online forms, simplifies patient scheduling, and supports audio and video calling.
Browser-Based Software Apps
These apps run in a web browser (e.g., Chrome or Firefox) and allow patients and clinicians to communicate in a HIPAA-compliant manner. Doxy. me, for example, offers free, safe, and unlimited chat and video communication, as well as subscription options with enhanced protection and encryption. It’s used for secure communications, such as telemedicine mental health therapy sessions.
Health Monitoring Software
Data from FDA-approved medical devices are coordinated using this software. Providers can use this technology to control wireless scales, blood pressure monitors, pulse oximeters, glucometer adapters, and other Bluetooth-enabled devices from a distance. For example, AMC health employs tracking and Bluetooth connectivity to allow remote devices to communicate biometric data, which patients and physicians may access and evaluate.
When telehealth initially became available, patients saw it as a less expensive option than in-person care. Because of the simplicity of telehealth, with the acceptance of technology came a willingness to participate. Remote patient monitoring was deployed in 61.2 percent of hospitals across the country in 2017.
Technology improvements have led to even more robust telehealth visits, with video conferencing options, wider access to broadband internet, and simple ways to collect biometric data. In 2005, there were 206 yearly telehealth visits among one insurance carrier’s subscribers, which climbed to 202,374 visits in 2017. Patients, medical practitioners, and healthcare facilities are increasingly appreciating the benefits, effectiveness, and convenience of telehealth sessions, and they are asking them more frequently.
For many people, fitness trackers, smartwatches, and other sorts of wearable technology have become indispensable. Wearers can monitor their health statistics, such as heart rate, sleep, and mobility, with these gadgets. It’s considerably easier for wearers to share their health data with their primary care physician when they have quick access to it.
Because almost everyone now has access to the internet and a device that can connect to it, such as a smartphone, telehealth services have never been more accessible. More mobile devices may now connect without being interrupted by speed concerns, thanks to the spread of 5G services1. Patients and clinicians can view each other’s facial expressions and have more in-depth dialogues about health issues and experiences through video conferencing. This engagement is popular globally for both patients and medical practitioners now that telehealth services are more widely available.
Artificial intelligence (AI) is becoming increasingly significant in telehealth. AI is used by medical professionals to assist with diagnosis and administrative tasks. Because most AI devices can be managed by triage nurses, doctors can see more patients with AI diagnoses and tests.
AI can also help with maintaining and sorting complete and accurate medical records. Doctors can electronically communicate their patient records to medical professionals thousands of miles distant. Medical providers can analyze considerable information about a patient’s background before making a diagnosis by using AI for administrative activities.
People use telehealth services in a variety of ways without even realizing it. One approach to take use telehealth services is to phone an emergency line or a poison control hotline to request treatment or guidance.
The telehealth sector has developed to cover a variety of clinical services in addition to emergency treatments, such as:
Mental health therapy: Because mental health counseling necessitates in-depth discussions, it naturally adapts to telehealth. Patients may feel more comfortable engaging in these conversations from home, thus many counselors, psychiatrists, and psychologists provide telemedicine sessions.
Doctor’s visits: Some patients prefer telehealth doctor’s visits over dealing with scheduling issues or logistics for an in-office visit. A doctor may be able to identify a non-serious sickness, such as a cold or the flu, by reviewing a patient’s medical history and present symptoms.
Patients with medical issues may require consultations with specialists who can assess their symptoms. In some situations, instead of visiting the office, these patients may be able to meet with physicians electronically via a telehealth session to acquire a diagnosis and treatment plan.
Analysis of lab or x-ray results: Patients who require blood to be drawn or x-rays must go to a doctor’s office in person. They may not need to schedule a follow-up consultation with a specialist or doctor to discuss their findings. Because the majority of these meetings are focused on communication, they can be readily performed through virtual video conferences or phone calls.
Health condition monitoring: Patients who have previously been diagnosed with a health issue may be able to monitor their condition without going to the doctor’s office. These patients have better visibility into their health parameters because of wearable technology that analyses their sleeping patterns, heart rate, and mobility. They can talk to their doctor over the phone or via video chat about complications, symptoms, or health changes.
Many healthcare services do not require in-person visits, allowing the telehealth industry to grow and provide more patients with conventional medical treatment.
In the healthcare industry, mobile health, often known as mHealth, has also become commonplace. The use of cellphones, tablets, laptops, and other electronic storage and communication devices by medical professionals are referred to as mobile health. These technologies let healthcare staff organize, store, and analyze patient data.
Wearable technology is classified as mHealth since it is used by both adults and children to assess health data. Doctors can use data from fitness trackers and smartwatches with health apps to check patient symptoms remotely.
Insurance companies are increasingly willing to cover telehealth services now that they have acquired popularity and demonstrated their efficacy. For example, virtual check-ins with patients, e-visits, and mental health condition therapies are all covered by Medicare.
Insurance coverage and telehealth sessions are governed by state laws. Patients may be asked to pay out-of-pocket and then be reimbursed for all or part of the telemedicine session in some instances. Except in Rhode Island, all states mandate insurance carriers to provide some telehealth coverage.
Telehealth has become a significant element of the healthcare sector as a handy and straightforward approach to diagnosing, assessing, and treating patients. With these recent advancements, telehealth technology continues to grow and become a useful tool for medical professionals.
Blackcoffer Insights 40: Uday Kovuri
